So now let's learn about AWS CloudFormation,
which is one of my personal favorite services in AWS.
So CloudFormation is a way for you to outline
your AWS infrastructure for any resources for this
using just code.
For example, in a CloudFormation template,
you're going to say, I want a security group.
I want two EC2 instances
that are going to be using the security group.
I want Elastic IPs for these EC2 instances.
I want an S3 bucket.
I want a load balancer in front of these EC2 instances.
And then by declaring what you want by just saying,
hey, all these things should exist
and they should be linked together, automatically,
CloudFormation will create them for you in the right order
with the exact configuration that you specify.
So this removes any need of doing manual configuration
and manual work, and all the things is provisioned
through CloudFormation.
So a CloudFormation template is going to be some code,
and the code will involve in a declarative way
what you want your infrastructure to be composed of.
And then we'll be able to visualize this infrastructure
using Infrastructure Composer
to see how the components relate to each other
in CloudFormation.
So why should you use AWS CloudFormation?
Well, first, it is your infrastructure as code.
That means that no resources are being manually created,
which is going to be excellent for control.
And all the code that makes up
these CloudFormation templates can be used
for version control, for example, using Git.
Also, any changes to your infrastructure
is going to be reviewed through code changes.
In terms of cost,
well, all the resources within your CloudFormation stack
is going to be tagged with an identifier
so you can easily see how much a CloudFormation stack
is going to cost you.
And we can also estimate the cost of resources
from your CloudFormation templates.
And finally, you can have saving strategy.
For example, in your development environment,
you could automate the deletion of the templates at 5:00 PM
and recreate them automatically at 8:00 AM in a safe matter
because everything is automated.
For productivity,
this is amazing because you have the ability to destroy
and recreate an infrastructure on the cloud on the fly.
And this is really leveraging the whole power of the cloud,
which is to just create and delete things
and only pay as you go.
You also have automated generation of diagrams
for your template, which is very good
for your architecture diagrams
and its declarative programming.
So you don't need to figure out the order of the creation
of the resources and the orchestration of things.
All these things are done by CloudFormation for you.
There's also a separation of concern.
You can create many CloudFormation stacks
for many applications and many layers.
For example, you may want to have stacks
for your network and your VPCs.
You may want to have stacks for your applications and so on.
Finally, you don't reinvent the wheel
because you can leverage existing templates on the web
and the documentation
to quickly write your CloudFormation templates.
Now, how does CloudFormation work?
Well, your templates must be uploaded in Amazon S3
and then referenced from CloudFormation.
So you upload it, and then from CloudFormation
you reference it and a stack will be created.
And what is a CloudFormation stack?
Well, it is made of AWS resources,
and it could be any kind of things you can create on AWS.
If you wanted to update a template,
you cannot edit the previous one.
What we have to do is to re-upload
a new version of the template to AWS
and then update your stack.
Now, your stacks are identified by a name within the region,
and if you delete a CloudFormation stack,
every single artifact and resource
that was created by CloudFormation will be deleted.
Now, how do we deploy CloudFormation templates?
Well, there is the manual way
in which we're going to use something
like Infrastructure Composer
or a code editor to directly create
our CloudFormation templates, and then we use the console
to input the parameters and so on.
And we'll do this method mostly in this course
for learning purposes, or you can go the automated way.
So you're going to edit your templates in a YAML file,
and then you use the CLI to deploy the templates,
or you use a continuous delivery tool
to this automatically on the cloud.
And it's recommended if you want to fully automate your flow
to deploying CloudFormation templates.
Now, the building blocks of CloudFormation.
So your template is made of different components,
and we'll have a look at them in detail,
so don't be overwhelmed by this,
but we have the AWSTemplateFormatVersion,
which defines the version of how to read the templates.
This is for internal purposes from AWS.
The description, which is the comments about the templates,
the resources, which is the actual only mandatory section
in CloudFormation, which is going to define
all the AWS resources that are declared in the templates,
the parameters,
which are the dynamic inputs for your templates,
the mappings, the static variables for your templates,
and we'll see the differences
between parameters and mappings,
the outputs to get references to what has been created
in your templates,
conditionals, which are a list of conditions
to perform resource creation,
and we'll have a few template helpers
such as references and functions.
But don't worry.
We'll have a look at all of this
and code examples in this section, so don't worry.
So that's it for an introduction to CloudFormation.
I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.